== API's == 
PowerMock consists of two extension API's. One for EasyMock and one for Mockito. To use PowerMock you need to depend on one of these API's as well as a test framework. Currently PowerMock supports JUnit and TestNG. There are three different JUnit test executors available, one for JUnit 4.4+, one for JUnit 4.0-4.3 and one for JUnit 3. There's one test executor for TestNG which requires version 5.11+ depending on which version of PowerMock you use.

== Writing tests ==

Write a test like this:

{{{
@RunWith(PowerMockRunner.class)
@PrepareForTest( { YourClassWithEgStaticMethod.class })
public class YourTestCase {
...
}
}}}

Sample code is available in git:
 * [https://github.com/jayway/powermock/blob/master/modules/module-test/easymock/junit4-test/src/test/java/samples/junit4/singleton/MockStaticTest.java Mocking static methods]
 * [https://github.com/jayway/powermock/blob/master/modules/module-test/easymock/junit4-test/src/test/java/samples/junit4/expectnew/ExpectNewDemoTest.java Expect new instance]
 * [https://github.com/jayway/powermock/blob/master/modules/module-test/easymock/junit4-test/src/test/java/samples/junit4/suppressconstructor/SuppressConstructorDemoTest.java Suppress constructor]

JUnit 3 requires a different setup by creating a suite, since test runners are not available. Please view some examples:
 * [https://github.com/jayway/powermock/blob/master/modules/module-test/easymock/junit3-test/src/test/java/samples/junit3/privateandfinal/PrivateFinalTest.java Mocking private methods with JUnit 3]


== Maven setup ==
=== JUnit ===
 * [EasyMock_maven EasyMock JUnit Maven setup]
 * [Mockito_maven Mockito JUnit Maven setup]
=== TestNG ===
 * [EasyMock_testng_maven EasyMock TestNG Maven setup]
 * [Mockito_testng_maven Mockito TestNG Maven setup]
== Non maven users ==
 
*EasyMock* 

JUnit:
Download the [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-easymock-junit-1.5.6.zip EasyMock] zip-file with PowerMock and all its dependencies and add those to your project.

TestNG:
Download the [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-easymock-testng-1.5.6.zip EasyMock] zip-file with PowerMock and all its dependencies and add those to your project.

*Mockito* 

JUnit:
Download the [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-mockito-junit-1.5.6.zip Mockito] zip-file with PowerMock and all its dependencies and add those to your project.

TestNG:
Download the [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-mockito-testng-1.5.6.zip Mockito] zip-file with PowerMock and all its dependencies and add those to your project.

*Or*

You could also download the [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-easymock-1.5.6-full.jar EasyMock jar-file] or [http://dl.bintray.com/johanhaleby/generic/powermock-mockito-1.5.6-full.jar Mockito jar-file] in a single file and then download the dependencies separately.

== Need to bootstrap using a JUnit rule? ==
 * The [PowerMockRule PowerMockRule] makes this happen

== Java agent based bootstrapping ==
Use the [PowerMockAgent PowerMock Java Agent] if you're having classloading problems when using PowerMock.