  * 2014-05-28: We have finally moved PowerMock's source code to [https://github.com/jayway/powermock github]!  This will hopefully lead to more pull requests and issues being fixed by the community.
  * 2014-05-28: PowerMock 1.5.5 has been released. See [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jayway/powermock/master/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2014-02-17: PowerMock has support for OSGi by using an <a href="https://code.google.com/p/powermock-osgi/">external project</a> maintained by Gabor Liptak. Big thanks for all your help!
  * 2014-01-29: PowerMock 1.5.4 has been released. See [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jayway/powermock/master/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2014-01-10: PowerMock 1.5.3 has been released with dependency updates and some bug fixes. See [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jayway/powermock/master/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2013-11-19: PowerMock 1.5.2 has been released with support for EasyMock 3.2 and various fixes. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2013-06-19: PowerMock 1.5.1 has been released. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2013-03-05: Johan blogs about the PowerMock stubbing API support at the Jayway [http://www.jayway.com/2013/03/05/beyond-mocking-with-powermock/ blog].
  * 2012-12-04: PowerMock 1.5 has finally been released with better support for Java 7 and support for Mockito 1.9.5. Big thanks to the community for helping out with bug fixes and bug tracking. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for more details.
  * 2012-04-05: PowerMock 1.4.12 has been released. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2012-01-05: PowerMock 1.4.11 has been released. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2011-08-23: PowerMock 1.4.10 has been released. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2011-05-19: Johan blogs about the experimental [PowerMockAgent Java agent] support in 1.4.9 at the Jayway [http://blog.jayway.com/2011/05/19/powermock-for-integration-testing/ blog].
  * 2011-05-02: PowerMock 1.4.9 has been released with experimental support for bootstrapping using a [PowerMockAgent Java agent] to avoid classloading issues, better TestNG support and various other fixes. See [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2011-02-26: PowerMock 1.4.8 has been released, see [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2010-12-28: Johan blogs on how to use PowerMock with unsupported frameworks such as JMock at the Jayway [http://blog.jayway.com/2010/12/28/powermock-with-unsupported-frameworks-such-as-jmock/ blog].
  * 2010-12-28: Johan blogs about the JUnit Rule support in 1.4.7 at the Jayway [http://blog.jayway.com/2010/12/28/using-powermock-with-spring-integration-testing/ blog].
  * 2010-12-28: PowerMock 1.4.7 has been released, see [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for details.
  * 2010-10-14: PowerMock 1.4.6 has been released and is now *available in the Maven Central* repository. The groupId has changed for most artifacts, have a look at the [GettingStarted getting started page] for information. Please refer to the [http://powermock.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/changelog.txt change log] for other details.
  * 2010-08-30: PowerMock 1.4.5 has been released. Please refer to the [ReleaseNotes145 release notes] for more information.